Now that we've explained the tools and how these YAML files are working,
let's take a look at all of this in action.
First,
we're going to create all the different parts of the
Kubernetes deployment that I've just covered.
Next, after the SQL Server Kubernetes deployment has been created,
we're going to connect to that SQL Server instance
using Microsoft's Azure Data Studio.
Then, you're going to see how you can restore a database to that SQL Server pod,
and you're going to see how you can run some queries against it.
Finally, I'll demonstrate a failover by killing the SQL Server pod,
then showing how you can reconnect to the new pod that's
spawned by the Kubernetes replica set.
Let's go ahead and have a look at it.
First, let's take a quick look at the load balancer YAML,
and we can see it over here in our sqlloadbalancer.yaml file.
Here's the file.
Let's take a look at the kind.
You can see that there, the name, our app selector is mssql,
and our protocol is TCP, our external port is 1433,
going to be mapped over to the internal port of 1433.
So let's go ahead and run the kubectl command to go
ahead and create this service, which you can see here,
and it is the kubectl command with apply and our service name.
So there we go, and the service was created.
That was pretty quick.
Now let's go ahead and create the storage.
First, here's the storage.yaml; we can see it here.
You can see at the top, our StorageClass.
You can see the name of azure‑disk.
You can see our storage account type.
You can see then our persistent volume claim,
our ReadWriteOnce, which means one container is accessing it,
and the storage size.
Now,
let's go ahead and create the storage. So the code that
creates the storage is down here.
You can see it's another kubectl apply command.
Now,
let's go ahead and run the kubectl apply command to create the external storage.
And you can see the storage is created.
So now, let's use kubectl,
and we're going to have a look at the persistent
volume and the persistent volume claim.
Here,
the first two kubectl commands retrieve a description of the persistent
storage and then a description of the persistent volume claim.
And here you can see, the descriptions of both of those.
So we've successfully created them.
You can see a few of their attributes down here,
like the capacity and the names of each of these things.
If you'll recall earlier when I was describing the sqlstorage.yaml file,
I mentioned, if you don't know what's available,
a kubectl gives you a way to find out.
If you run the kubectl get storageclass command, like you see here,
it will list the different storage classes that are available to you.
So in this case here, you can see that we could have chosen azure‑disk,
azurefile, azurefile‑premium, the default.
or managed‑premium.
All of these are the different choices that you have available to you.
Okay?
Now let's talk about assigning a value to the Kubernetes Secrets.
Here's the code to go ahead and create a Kubernetes secret.
You can see we're using the kubectl create secret command,
and we're passing in a literal that's going to contain our SA_PASSWORD.
You don't necessarily have to do this.
You don't have to create a secret, but it's a good practice,
and it gives you a more secure way of passing the SA_PASSWORD
into the deployment that we're about to create.
So let's go ahead and create the secret.
You can tell it takes just a second, and the secret has been created.
Now, let's go ahead and create the deployment, but before we do,
let's have a quick look at the sqldeployment.yaml that
we're going to go ahead and run.
At the top, you can see that the kind shows the type of deployment.
Again, you can see the name of the deployment.
If we scroll down, you can see the replica set and the name of the app.
If we scroll a little farther,
we can see the container image and the different
environment variables that we're going to use.
And if we scroll down a little farther,
you can see where the container is using the mountPath
inside the container of /var/opt/mssql.
So now let's go ahead and create this deployment. And we
can see the deployment was created.
This actually sends the command to the scheduler,
and it takes it a few minutes behind the scenes to go
ahead and create our deployment.
So let's wait just a second.
Now that that's completed, our container should be running.
Let's go ahead and look at the code to list the pods and the services out here.
You can see that we're going to run kubectl get pods
to list the pods that are there,
and kubectl get services to list the services that are running.
Let's go ahead and run these commands.
And we've done that, and you can see at the bottom of the screen,
we have one pod that's going ahead and running,
called mssql‑deployment is the starting name of our pod,
and it's running, and down below,
you can see that we have two services that are running,
and one is for Kubernetes itself,
and the other is our load balancing service called mssql‑service.
And you should pay attention to the EXTERNAL‑IP,
and that's the EXTERNAL‑IP that we're going to use to connect into this pod.
Now that our SQL Server 2019 pod is running,
we have a highly available SQL Server deployment.
However, at this point, this SQL Server instance is fresh out of the box,
and it doesn't have any databases on it.
We could go ahead and connect to it with any of the normal
SQL Server Management tools or programs,
but so far, there's not a lot to see.
If you've gone ahead and deployed SQL Server on Kubernetes,
well,
one of the first things you're going to want to do is
get some databases up and running.
So let's go ahead and see how we can copy a database to our
SQL Server pod, then we'll connect to it,
and go ahead and manage it.
Let's look at the code to copy a database into the pod.
At the top here,
you can see where we're using the kubectl cp command to
copy a database to our SQL Server pod.
At the top,
I'm using grep to cut out and do a simple parse of the kubectl
get pods output to retrieve the pod name.
At the bottom,
you can see the kubectl cp command that copies the
AdventureWorks2014 backup database file to the SQL Server pod.
It uses the variable that has that pod name that we retrieved earlier,
and the SQL Server default directory of /var/opt/mssql/data.
Remember, this storage is actually external.
If the pod fails, the storage will remain intact.
So let's go ahead and run the copy command,
to copy this database to our pod, and remember,
this is copying it from our local system,
our local Ubuntu system, to our Kubernetes cluster that is running up in Azure.
After the database backup has been copied to the pod,
we can go ahead and restore it and run some queries.
To do that, we're going to need to use some of the SQL Server Management tools.
In this case, I'm going to go ahead and use Azure Data Studio,
which is a cross‑platform database management tool.
It can be readily installed on Ubuntu,
and it can connect to SQL Server running locally,
or SQL Server in our Kubernetes cluster.
Okay, let's open the script that will connect with Azure Data Studio.
At the top of the script, you can see where again,
I'm grepping out the external IP address of the cluster from the
output of the kubectl get services command.
Next, let's scroll down to the second part of the script,
and you can see for convenience sake,
I'm pasting it into the clipboard so I don't have to type
the IP address out on the connect dialog,
and then the script is firing up Azure Data Studio.
So, let's go ahead and run this, and it's positive.
Let's give this a chance to start Azure Data Studio when we press a key.
And we've done it, and here comes up Azure Data Studio.
From Azure Data Studio, let's first go ahead and connect to our SQL Server pod.
Remember here, Azure Data Studio, like kubectl,
is running on my local Ubuntu system,
while the Kubernetes cluster itself is running in Azure Kubernetes Services.
So let's open our connect dialog,
and you can see our server prompt in the Azure Studio connect dialog,
and then we can enter our username of SA.
Next, we'll go ahead and enter our SA_PASSWORD,
and remember, this is the same password that we stored in the Kubernetes secret.
And then we'll go ahead and connect.
And here,
you can see that Azure Data Studio has gone ahead and connected to our SQL
Server instance that is running in our Kubernetes cluster,
and it's acting just like it would with any other instance of SQL Server.
Here, SQL Server doesn't really know that it's running in Kubernetes.
If we expand our databases,
you can see we've only got the system databases out there.
In our server dashboard here,
you can see that we're running on Red Hat Enterprise Linux,
and that this is the container image that we used for our pod.
Now,
let's go ahead and restore the backup of the AdventureWorks2014
file that we copied over to our container.
First, let's go ahead and open up our backup file,
and remember, the backup path that we copied it over to was /var/opt/mssql/data.
So if we scroll down, we'll find our backup file.
So we'll go ahead and select it.
We're going to go ahead and restore it to the AdventureWorks database,
and you can see that it recognizes it as a valid backup file.
So we're going to go ahead and hit Restore,
and at this point, the Restore database is in progress.
It only takes it a couple seconds to go ahead and run.
Now that the database has been restored,
we should be able to see it in our Databases list.
So let's go ahead and refresh our database list, and there's AdventureWorks2014.
We can go ahead and run a quick query.
Let's go ahead and select the top 1000 of the Department table,
and here you can see our query and the results of the query.
So you can see that SQL Server on Kubernetes is running
exactly like any other instance of SQL Server.
Now let's switch back to Visual Studio Code and simulate running a failover.
So let's open our demo failover script. In this script,
you can see that I, at the top again,
parse out the pod name from the kubectl get pods command.
Then you can see the kubectl delete pod command is
used to actually delete the pod.
Now, of course, this is going to kill the SQL Server instance that's running.
Let's scroll down to see the next part of the script, and here you can
see that the script waits a few seconds to give the Kubernetes replica
set a little bit of time to restart the pod,
and then we list the newly running pod.
You might take note of the new pod name here, once it starts.
So let's run this script. And here, it's going ahead and deleting our pod,
and it's going to take it just a couple of different seconds
as it waits to restart our pod. And there, you can see that
it's already up and running.
You might note this pod name. If we scroll back through our output earlier,
you can see that our pod name here is different than the pod that is now
running, because Kubernetes has restarted the pod.
Now, let's go back to Azure Data Studio and reconnect to our new pod.
And here is Azure Data Studio, and we're back at our home screen.
If we want to go back and look at our databases,
you can see that our databases are still intact, and it's still online.
It's acting and running exactly as if it had never gone down.
So not a lot was going on with this, so our recovery here was very fast.
And if we re‑open up our AdventureWorks database. and re‑query the data,
you can see that our query runs almost as if we didn't have a failover at all.
Okay, now that we've completed the failover,
let's go ahead and see what's running. First, we're going to go ahead and
use kubectl get all to get all of the different Kubernetes components that
are out there running, and then we'll briefly describe the pod, using
kubectl describe pod, like you can see here.
So let's go ahead and run it, and we'll scroll back and
have a quick look at what it returned.
And you can see here, there is our command, and there's the name of our
deployment. There are the two services that are running,
including the load balancing service, and beneath that,
we have our pod and our replica set,
and you can see that our replica set has our desired count, our current count.
Now let's scroll down to the pod description, and you can see the
pod name here, the start time for the pod, and if we scroll down a
little farther, we can see the containers that are running with the
Container ID and the Image ID.
If we scroll down a little bit farther,
we can see the environment variables that we passed into the pod, as well as
the external volume that we've attached to, /var/opt/mssql, and in the secrets
that we've passed into the pod for our SA_PASSWORD,
if we scroll down a little bit farther, we can see some of the
messages associated with the pod. So, we can see that
everything is basically out there running.
Now, if we want to go ahead and get the logs for the pod, and this
is going to show the logs from the pod itself, which came from SQL
Server. And here are our logs, and you can see these are normal
logs for a SQL Server restart.
If we scroll back,
you can see that it tells us that database master is coming up.
It tells us about the health file size, and that SQL
Server is now ready for client connection, so its normal
logs from a SQL Server startup.
You can see that after our failover, everything is pretty much running.
If we want to go ahead and clean up our deployment, we can go ahead
and run this command, and this is az group delete.
Remember,
our Azure Kubernetes Services resource group contains
all of our Kubernetes components.
So if we want to go ahead and clean this up to either re‑run
another test in the future, or to basically change our
configuration and restart it, we can run this command.
It will ask us if we're sure if we want to perform this
operation; we'll say yes, and at this point,
it will go ahead and clean up everything that we've created out here, and this
would also stop any charges from happening with Azure's Kubernetes Services or the VM charges for the nodes or the storage.